# NLP-1

## General Advise

Author: Shivansh S

Advise: Do not miss the classes, Manish teaches it slowly but gives beautiful
intuition of everything that happens. Coding up the ideas will be tough but go
through it, its worth it.

## Resources

Resource Name: PyTorch: NLP from scratch

Contributor (your) Name: Shivansh S

Resource Links:
https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/char_rnn_classification_tutorial.html

Have you completed studying this resource?: Yes

Your review of this resource: Kinda hand wavy, but a good introduction on how
to use pytorch

Why do you think this resource will be useful for others?: It helps
understanding and making the first Neural Network using LSTMs. Helpful if its
the first time, but it often becomes hand wavy at some points and you might
need to google around to properly understand whats happening. I would recommend
to go through it, and make it (atleast the first 2 parts) but do not consider
it as a bible when trying to code

##

Resource Name: Intro-to-NLP1

Contributor (your) Name: Shivansh S

Resource Links: https://github.com/AurumnPegasus/Intro-to-NLP1

Have you completed studying this resource?: I mean I compiled it so yea
stuck_out_tongue

Your review of this resource: Gives an in depth explanation of execution of the
code which are required in the course

Why do you think this resource will be useful for others?: From a cld
perspective, I felt that the jump NLP1 made from cl2 to nlp1 was huge, and
majority of the time I had to spend was on coding and understanding of how to
code stuff up. Hence the repo I have linked have code with algorithms explained
with execution.

Statistical: Explains properly the alogirthms used for Kneyser Ney and Witten
Bell smoothing, and their execution Neural: Explains in depth of all the
decisions which I took to create a basic Language Model. This also explains
dimensions properly, which I felt was the toughest part to understand with
respect to NNs.

##

Resource Name: 3b1b

Contributor (your) Name: Shivansh S

Resource Links:
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDNU6R1_67000Dx_ZCJB-3pi

Have you completed studying this resource?: Yes

Your review of this resource: Absolute Beauty

Why do you think this resource will be useful for others?: Gives a very
coherent and basic explanation of how neural networks work, and gives the
perfect amount of math intuition require to understand what exactly is
happening. My advice is to go through this before Manish starts talking about
LSTMs
